---
layout: post
title: Sample Post
description: "Just about everything you'll need to style in the theme: headings, paragraphs, blockquotes, tables, code blocks, and more."
modified: 2014-08-07
tags: [SQL Optimization]
image:
  feature: abstract-3.jpg
  credit: dargadgetz
  creditlink: http://www.dargadgetz.com/ios-7-abstract-wallpaper-pack-for-iphone-5-and-ipod-touch-retina/
comments: true
share: true
---
Query optimization is an automated process that finds the most efficient way to return on a user's query. This can be quite a complex operation with many possible routes to completion, so optimization tries to do the task in the most time-efficient manner possible.

One of the most important ways the optimizer works is by using a 3-part algorithm that relies heavily on join order and sort order. The algorithm's pseudocode reads a bit like comparison shopping ($ = time); I'll try to explain the basics of it here:<

1. Maps all possible routes between the queried relationship.  It also looks at the cheapest route for returning things in a particular sorted order.

2. Goes back and checks on connections made with the JOIN keyword. As with the first step, it will figure out the cheapest way to join the relation pairs, followed by doing the same thing with a sort order in mind.

3. Once these two-relation blueprints are created, the third (or more relations) in the query can be computed with an additional join. 

The human element in this can play a big role in helping the query optimization pick the best route of extraction. Of course, I don't yet know from experience what truly works best, but from the wise words of the Internet, here are some suggestions for helping the optimizer along. (Please leave me a comment if you disagree with any of these!)
<ul>
  <li>Minimize subquery blocks</li>

  <li>IN is preferable when the query is weighted in the subquery while EXISTS speeds things up when the bulk of criteria is in the main query.</li>

  <li>Performing sort order earlier can reduce repetitive sorting later and can also make a later join smoother by clustering before joining huge chunks of data.</li>

  <li>In joins focused on one-to-many relationship, use EXISTS instead of DINSTINCT.</li>

  <li>Adding keys when creating tables can speed the first step in the algorithm along by adding more potential connections for the optimizer to choose from.</li>

  <li>Start all SQL verbs on a new line.</li>

  <li>Consider reorganizing your database schema. You may have some extra
  baggage in there somewhere.</li>

  <li>Only query what you need. The more you ask for, the more expensive the result. Along those same lines, using "*" is slower than specifying columns.</li>

  <li>Always try to JOIN on indexed fields.</li>
</ul>
There are many more suggestions out there, but I've limited this post to the commands I have a handle on. Optimizing is a bit sophisticated for my skill level, but it's great to be thinking about higher levels of organization and syntax as we go deeper into our learning. In general, expect your queries to be really fast. If they're taking longer than 1 second, you can probably optimize. <