---
layout: post
title: A Focus on Values
description: "Determining values and their expression in actions."
modified: 2014-08-06
tags: [values]
image:
  feature: whole.png
  credit: Liz Koch
  <!-- creditlink: http://www.dargadgetz.com/ios-7-abstract-wallpaper-pack-for-iphone-5-and-ipod-touch-retina/ -->
comments: true
share: true
---

##A Focus on Values & how they Light Up the Path
      
###First things First

The last few years have been an exponential lesson in attention to values. I've spent some time futzing around outside of my value set -- clearing the value palate, you could say -- and I've spent a lot more time meditating on what values I actually do want to hold as a guide. Of course, it's probably best to have a fine blend of values; but as for the value torch, I'd have to go with integrity. It could be argued that there are seasons for just about everything else: ambition, creativity, challenge, serenity, even honesty. Integrity, though, is something to me that's less of a morality marker and more of a foundation, something that sets the alignment for all other values. By definition, it's the state of being whole. It's been the one thing that when I've consistently struck it, regardless of the circumstances, everything else falls into place.
      
###Advice is a Pointer

The advice prompt for this post strikes me as a pointer toward what the world values in me, or what values I project out into my community. My partner writes two weekly columns for San Francisco publications, and she asks me every week for editorial advice. I get this request from many different people in my circles, and it's definitely indicative of where I've pointed my attention and to which values I've attended up to this point in my life.
      
###Not all Values all the Time
      
I know that some of the values that I would rate as very strong for me may not always serve me well in every situation, especially in the face of stereotype threat. When I lean on challenge, adventure, ambition, and willpower, I may not respond as well to stereotype threat (I might actually reinforce the stereotype) as I would when I press further into serenity, compassion, vibrancy, and truth. The key here, again, is integrity, or knowing what combination of values will make me whole in any given moment. I think an important addition to this would be the word "agile". Having agile integrity is important in knowing when to lean on certain values and when to back off of others. 